arXiv:2004.00107v2 [cs.NI] 27 Apr 2020
Merkle-CRDTs
Merkle-DAGs meet CRDTs
H´ector Sanju´an1
, Samuli P ¨oyht¨ari2
, Pedro Teixeira1
, and Ioannis Psaras1,3
1Protocol Labs
2Haja Networks
3University College London
Abstract—We study Merkle-DAGs as a transport and persistence layer for Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs),
coining the term Merkle-CRDTs and providing an overview of
the different concepts, properties, advantages and limitations
involved. We show how Merkle-DAGs can act as logical clocks
giving Merkle-CRDTs the potential to greatly simplify the design
and implementation of convergent data types in systems with
weak messaging layer guarantees and a very large number of
replicas. Merkle-CRDTs can leverage highly scalable distributed
technologies like DHTs and PubSub algorithms running underneath to take advantage of the security and de-duplication
properties of content-addressing. Examples of such contentoriented systems could include peer-to-peer content exchange and
synchronisation applications between opportunistically connected
mobile devices, IoT devices or user applications running in a web
browser.
I. INTRODUCTION
The advent of blockchain technology has generalized the
use of peer-to-peer networking along with cryptographicallydirected acyclic graphs, known as Merkle-DAGs, to implement
globally distributed and eventually consistent data structures
in applications such as cryptocurrencies. In these systems, the
Merkle-DAG is a content-addressed data structure used to provide both causality information and self-verification of objects
that can be easily and efficiently shared in trustless peer-to-peer
environments. The need to maintain and apply certain rules to
add new blocks to the blockchains in adversarial scenarios
usually warrants the use of consensus algorithms.
A different approach to obtaining eventual consistency
in a distributed system is by using Conflict-Free Replicated
Data Types (CRDTs) [30], [33]. CRDTs are useful in nonadversarial scenarios, where the participating replicas are
known to behave correctly. CRDTs rely on some properties of
the data objects themselves that enable convergence towards a
global, unique state without the need for consensus. CRDTs
come in two main flavours: state-based CRDTs1—where the
states of replicas form a join-semilattice and are merged under
the guarantees afforded by it—and operation-based CRDTs2
—in which commutative operations are broadcast and applied
to the local state by every replica. Additionally, δ-CRDTs are
an optimization of state-based CRDTs to reduce the size of
the payloads sent by the replicas.
Both Merkle-DAGs and CRDTs provide interesting properties: the former allows distributed systems to take advantage
1Also known as Convergent CRDTs or CvRDTs.
2Also known as Commutative CRDTs or CmRDTs.
of a content-addressing layer for the resolution/discoverability
and self-verification of data regardless of the source location;
the latter allows global state convergence without the need
for—usually complex and expensive—consensus mechanisms.
By embedding CRDT objects inside Merkle-DAG nodes, we
obtain the best properties of both worlds, that is, we obtain a convergent system that can leverage the DAG as a
logical clock. This logical clock is provided and built by
every replica without the need for coordination. Replicas can
operate undisrupted in loose network environments with no
delivery guarantees. As we will see, a system based on MerkleCRDTs is fully agnostic to how the system announces and
discovers data among replicas, thus being able to leverage
different approaches like those provided by DHT and PubSub
mechanisms without being tied to a particular version of them.
This is in stark contrast to traditional consensus algorithms,
e.g., Raft, which are tied to particular message dissemination
protocols.
We conceive this approach as extremely useful for fully distributed and unstructured peer-to-peer applications, where the
replicas are writers to a common dataset, usually in the form
of a database. This is the case for example, in a distributed and
fully replicated file-system, chat group or package repository
index. We have found that using the InterPlanetary File System
(IPFS) [14] (see Section II-F) as a content-addressed, peer-topeer decentralised file system and content distribution network,
a Merkle-CRDT-based system scales well to the order of
thousands of replicas which can opportunistically join and
depart – a very common condition when working with mobile,
browsers or IoT devices.
The InterPlanetary File System provides a contentaddressed peer-to-peer filesystem [14], which supports seamless syncing of Merkle-DAGs with arbitrary formats and
payloads, making it a robust building block for different types
of distributed applications like PeerPad3 or OrbitDB4
, both
powered by CRDTs and IPFS. IPFS not only delivers the right
environment for working with content addressed data (like the
Merkle-DAG that we will use), but also allows our CRDT
application to be fully detached from the lower levels of the
distributed system: networking transports, discovery and data
transfer facilities come in modules which can be swapped
and tweaked independently. Leveraging such system greatly
simplifies the design and optimization of the CRDT layer so
3PeerPad is a real time p2p collaborative editing tool (https://peerpad.net).
4OrbitDB is a peer-to-peer database for the decentralized web
(https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db ).
that it adapts well to the use case it is meant to serve.
In this paper we formalize what we refer to as MerkleCRDTs. The goal is to provide an overview of their properties,
advantages and limitations, so that it can set the ground
layer for future research and optimizations in the space. For
example, Merkle-CRDTs allow building fully distributed keyvalue stores in real-world systems in networks with no message
delivery guarantees and fully flexible replica sets that can grow
and shrink at any time without impacting the CRDT layer.
The contributions of this paper are as follows:
• We define Merkle-Clocks as Merke-DAG-based logical
clocks, to represent causality information in a distributed
system. Embedding causality information using MerkleDAGs is at the core of cryptocurrencies and source
control systems like Git but they are rarely considered
separately as a type of logical clock. We demonstrate
that Merkle-Clocks can be used in place of other logical
clocks traditionally used by CRDTs like version vectors
and vector clocks. We show that Merkle-Clocks can, in
fact, be seen as CRDT objects themselves, which can be
synced and merged and for which we can formally prove
eventual consistency across different replicas.
• We define Merkle-CRDTs as a general purpose transport
and persistence layer for CRDT payloads which leverages
the properties of Merkle-Clocks, using the DAG-Syncer
and the Broadcaster to provide per-object causal consistency by design. This enables the use of simple CRDT
types in systems with weak messaging layer guarantees
and large number of replicas.
Our intention with this paper is to show that eventual
consistency between replicas can be achieved independently of
the underlying transport mechanisms and in a setting where
all peers are equal. This means that Merkle-CRDTs can be
implemented on top of any underlying peer discovery and
routing system (e.g., DHT, PubSub). We argue that this is a
very powerful concept that has the potential to lead to new
eventual consistency system designs. It is also fundamentally
different to traditional consensus algorithms, such as Raft,
where at any given time there needs to be a leader peer that
collects the latest state from all other peers. As such, we do
not provide an evaluation against these traditional approaches
as their requirements and design principles are fundamentally
different.
The rest of the paper is organised as follows: In Section II,
we start by introducing relevant background concepts and prior
art. In Section III, we expose the characteristics of our system
model and introduce the facilities needed to store and sync
Merkle-CRDTs.
In Section IV, we introduce Merkle-Clocks and, building
on the previous sections, in Section V, we define MerkleCRDTs. We discuss how different CRDT payloads (whether
operation-based, state-based or δ-based) benefit from MerkleCRDTs. Finally, we describe some of the limitations and
inefficiencies of Merkle-CRDTs and introduce techniques to
overcome them in Section VI.
II. BACKGROUND & RELATED WORK
A. Eventual consistency
Eventual Consistency (EC) in distributed systems refers
to the situation where the state may not be the same across
replicas of the system but, given enough time and perhaps after
network partitions, downtime and other eventualities have been
resolved, the system design will ensure that the state becomes
the same everywhere.
The main weakness of the eventual consistency definition
is that it offers no guarantees as to when the shared state will
converge or how much the individual states will be allowed
to diverge until then5
. Strong eventual consistency (SEC)
addresses these issues by establishing an additional safety
guarantee: if two replicas have received the same updates, their
state will be the same.
Consensus algorithms or, more important to this paper,
Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) are ways to
achieve (strong) eventual consistency in a distributed system.
B. Merkle DAGs
A Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) is a type of graph in
which edges have direction and cycles are not allowed. For
example, a linked list like A → B → C is an instance of a
DAG where A references B and so on. We say that B is a
child or a descendant of A, and that node A has a link to B.
Conversely A is a parent of B. We call nodes6
that are not
children to any other node in the DAG as the root nodes. A
Merkle-DAG is a DAG where each node has an identifier and
this is the result of hashing the node’s contents —any opaque
payload carried by the node and the list of identifiers of its
children— using a cryptographic hash function like SHA256.
This brings some important considerations:
a) Merkle-DAGs can only be constructed from the leaves,
that is, from nodes without children. Parents are added
after children because the children’s identifiers must be
computed in advance to be able to link them.
b) every node in a Merkle-DAG is the root of a (sub)MerkleDAG itself, and this subgraph is contained in the parent
DAG7
.
c) Merkle-DAG nodes are immutable. Any change in a node
would alter its identifier and thus affect all the ascendants
in the DAG, essentially creating a different DAG.
Identifying a data object (like a Merkle-DAG node) by the
value of its hash is referred to as content addressing. Thus,
we name the node identifier as Content Identifier or CID.
For example, in the previous linked list, assuming that the
payload of each node is just the CID of its descendant would
be: A = Hash(B) → B = Hash(C) → C = Hash(∅). The
5EC only provides a liveness guarantee: the system will not become stuck
when making progress to converge.
6Throughout the paper, we use the term replica to refer to the physical
machine of a network node and node to refer to bundled content addressed
by a single identifier.
7Merkle-DAGs are similar to Merkle Trees [25] but there are no balance
requirements and every node can carry a payload. In DAGs, several branches
can re-converge or, in other words, a node can have several parents, or be part
of several Merkle DAGs.
properties of the hash function ensure that no cycles can exist
when creating Merkle-DAGs. 8
.
Merkle-DAGs are self-verified and immutable structures.
The CID of a node is univocally linked to the contents of its
payload and those of all its descendants. Thus two nodes with
the same CID univocally represent exactly the same DAG.
This will be a key property to efficiently sync Merkle-CRDTs
without having to copy the full DAG, as exploited by systems
like IPFS.
Merkle-DAGs are widely used. Source control systems [13]
like Git [17] use them to efficiently store the repository history
in a way that enables de-duplicating the objects and detecting
conflicts between branches. In distributed databases like Dynamo [19], Merkle-Trees are used for efficient comparison and
reconciliation of the state between replicas. In Hash Histories
[22], content addressing is used to refer to a Merkle-Tree
representing a state.
Merkle-DAGs are also the foundational block of
blockchains—they can be seen as a Merkle-DAG with a single
branch—and their most common application: cryptocurrencies
(e.g., [3], [1], [18]). Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin [26] benefit
from the embedded causality information encoded in the chain:
transactions in a block deeper in the chain always happened
before those of earlier blocks. One of the main issues in
cryptocurrencies is to make all participating peers agree about
the tip/head/root of the chain. Among other things, the noncommutative nature of some transactions, requires a consensus
mechanism which enforces that only valid blocks become the
new roots.
One commonality in many of these systems is that the
Merkle-DAG implicitly embeds causality information. The
DAG can show that a certain transaction precedes another
or that a Git commit needs to be merged rather than fastforwarded. This will be one of the properties that we use in
Merkle-CRDTs and that this paper makes explicit and puts in
contrast with other causality-encoding mechanisms known as
logical clocks.
C. Logical clocks
The design of causally-convergent systems involves the reconciliation of diverging state versions among different replicas
when, for example, events occur concurrently.
This requires that we are able to identify whether two
events actually happened concurrently and whether two states
are actually different because of concurrent updates or other
reasons, such as one replica having received more updates.
The problem is, essentially, tracking the order in which
different events happened. For example, given multiple writes
of a value to a register in different replicas, we would expect
the final value in the registry to be that of the last write.
Ideally, we should be able to order all the events in the
system9
so that we can identify which was the actual last
update to the register.
8Hash functions are one way functions. Creating a cycle should then be
impossibly difficult, unless some weakness is discovered and exploited.
9This means establishing a total strict order for all the events.
Tagging events with timestamps can give us this information: if all events are timestamped, any replica may establish
the order in which they happened and use that information
to decide what the final state should look like. However, In
distributed systems, it is not possible to use timestamps reliably
[27], as not every replica can be perfectly synced to a global
time. “Wall clocks” can also easily be simulated or spoofed,
which is problematic in peer-to-peer systems with no trust
involved.
Logical clocks are the alternative to global time. They
provide ways to encode causal information between events
known to different actors in a distributed system.
The basic idea is that, although we may not know the order
in which all events happened globally, every replica knows at
least the order of events issued by itself. Any other replica that
receives that information will then know that any events later
issued by itself come after those. This is, in essence, what is
known as causal history.
Logical clocks are representations of causal histories [12]
and provide a partial ordering between events. That is, given
two events a and b, logical clocks should be able to tell us if
a happened before b (a → b), or vice-versa (b → a), or if both
a and b happened concurrently (a k b).
The practical implementation of logical clocks usually
involves metadata which travels attached to every event in the
system. One of the most common forms of logical clocks are
version vectors [28]: every replica maintains and broadcasts a
vector that tracks on which version the state of all the replicas
is. When a replica performs a modification of the state, it
increases its version. When a replica merges a state from a
different replica, it takes the highest between the local versions
and the versions provided by the other replica along with the
event. Thus, given two events a, b, with version vectors V
a
,
V
b
: a → b if V
a
i ≤ Vb
i
for each position i in the vectors. If
a 6→ b and b 6→ a, by that definition, a and b are concurrent.
As we see, version vectors are compact because they do
not need to store the full causal history but merely a number
indicating how long the history is for every replica. Version
vectors depend on the number of replicas, so they may need
further optimizations to work well in scenarios with many
replicas or where the number of replicas is not stable.
In this paper we demonstrate that a Merkle-DAG can act
as a logical clock. Merkle-Clocks, as we will show, provide
a different set of properties but encode the same causal
information about events.
D. Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs)
CRDTs are data types which provide strong eventual
consistency among different replicas in a distributed system by
requiring certain properties from the state and/or the operations
that modify it. Additionally, CRDTs also feature monotonicity.
The concept of monotonicity applied to data types is the notion
that every update is an inflation, making the state grow, not in
size, but in respect to a previous state. This implies that there
will always be an order between states. Monotonicity implies
that rollbacks on the state are not necessary regardless of the
order in which updates happen.
There are two prominent types of CRDTs: state-based and
operation-based CRDTs. In state-based CRDTs, all the states
in the system —that is, the states in different replicas and
different moments— form a monotonic join-semilattice. That
means that, for any two states X and Y , both can be ”joined”
(merged, or form a union) (⊔) and the result is a new state
corresponding to the Least-Upper-Bound (LUB) of the two
[30]. In other words, every modification made to a state by
a replica must be an inflation and the union of two states
X and Y is the minimal state capable of containing both X
and Y and not more (the LUB). A join-semilattice is thus a
partially ordered set and its LUB is the smallest state capable of
containing all the states in the semilattice. This implies that the
⊔ operation must be idempotent (X ⊔ X = X), commutative
(X⊔Y = Y ⊔X) and associative ((X⊔Y )⊔Z = X⊔(Y ⊔Z)).
Replicas in a state-based CRDT modify their state—or
inflate it—and broadcast the resulting state to the rest of
replicas10. Upon receiving the state, the other replicas merge
it with the local state. The properties of the state ensure that,
if the replicas have correctly received the states sent by other
replicas—and vice-versa—, they will eventually converge.
Operation-based CRDTs [30], on the other side, do not
enforce any property on the state itself but on the operations
used to modify it, which must be commutative (at least
with regard to a different operation issued at the same time
(concurrently). The replicas broadcast the operations and not
the states. If two operations happen at the same time in two
replicas, the order in which other replicas apply them does not
matter: the resulting states will be the same.
It follows that, if an operation broadcast does not arrive
to a replica —for example due to a network failure—, that
replica will never be able to apply it and the states will not
converge. Thus, unlike state-based CRDTs, eventual consistency in operation-based CRDTs requires a reliable messaging
layer that eventually delivers all operations [11]. Additional
constraints may be necessary, for example, if operations are
not idempotent: in that case, the messaging layer should ensure
that each operation is delivered exactly once.
Some operation-based CRDTs may also require causal
delivery: if a replica sends operation a before b (a → b), then
a should always be delivered before b to a different replica.
These properties and requirements in both state and
operation-based CRDTs ensure per-object causal consistency:
updates to a state will maintain the causal relations between
them. For example, in a Grow-Only Set (G-Set), when a replica
adds element A and then element B, no other replica will ever
have a set where B is part of the set but A is not. 11
.
Logical clocks, as seen in the previous section, are commonly used to implement CRDT types: they are useful to
10An important note here is that CRDTs are just data types. The transmission policy of CRDT objects between replicas is independent. Some CRDTs
are, by design, better suited to some broadcasting mechanisms than others
and can facilitate optimizations such as broadcasting only to a random subset
rather than to every replica.
11This is clear for an operation-based implementation of a G-Set (assuming
causal delivery of the operations). The state-based implementation of a G-Set
involves sending the full set. Thus, the event adding B is a set which already
contains A: there will not be a set where B is present but not A, even if the
event that added A was lost or arrives later.
identify when two updates happen concurrently and need
merging. CRDTs have been successfully used and optimized in
different applications and distributed databases, Basho’s Riak
[15], [16] being one of the most prominent examples.
E. Sync Protocols in Information-Centric Networks
There are multiple types of logical clocks that are similar
to version vectors discussed earlier, but fulfil different needs
or address some of their shortcomings: vector clocks [21],
bounded version vectors [8], dotted version vectors [29], tree
clocks [24] or interval tree clocks [9] are some of them.
There has been a recent body of work in distributed dataset
synchronisation in the area of Information-Centric Networks
(ICN) [32], [31], [35], [7]. Information-Centric architectures
are advocating direct content naming at the network layer and
subsequent routing and forwarding (by core network routers),
based on content names and (in some cases) longest-prefix
matching.
ChronoSync [35] is utilising the features of the NamedData Networking architecture [34] to synchronise state between different datasets. ChronoSync is a data-layer mechanism, which, however, takes advantage of the hierarchical
and flexible naming scheme that NDN is building on. Inspired
by Merkle Trees, ChronoSync is using cryptographic digests
and filters to synchronise datasets between peers. ChronoSync
takes advantage of the name-based nature of the underlying
network (NDN) and is assigning a unique publishing prefix to
each peer. This unique prefix, together with sequence numbers
and network layer persisting/long-lived “Interest packets” is
replacing much of what other approaches attempt to do with
clocks and CRDTs. While integrating sync functionality at the
network layer allows for more native designs, some features
are inevitably lost. For example, ChronoSync cannot deal with
simultaneous (concurrent) data publication. RoundSync [32] is
partially solving this problem by splitting the sycnhronisation
process in rounds.
VectorSync [31] is an enhanced version of ChronoSync
[35] which uses version vectors to make synchronisation
between peers more efficient. Version vectors are more efficient
in detection of inconsistencies, than simple message digests, as
mentioned earlier. However, similarly to other proposals in the
area, VectorSync needs to realise a ‘leader-based membership
management’ in order to deal with active members that update
the state of the dataset.
The integration of distributed dataset synchronisation features natively at the network layer of the network is clearly
an advanced endeavour, which comes with its own challenges.
We believe that the advantage of “transport-agnostic” state synchronisation brought by Merkle-CRDTs can apply and improve
the performance of protocols such as ChronoSync, RoundSync
or VectorSync. On the other hand, handling Merkle-CRDTbased state synchronisation directly through named network
objects brings standard ICN advantages to Merkle-CRDTs.
As such we consider those two distinct approaches to state
synchronisation as complementary.
F. IPFS: The InterPlanetary File System
IPFS [14] is a content-addressed, distributed filesystem. It
uses a Distributed Hash Table (DHT) to announce and discover
which replicas (or peers) provide certain Merkle-DAG nodes.
It implements a node-exchange protocol called bitswap to
retrieve DAG nodes from any provider. IPFS is built on top of
libp2p [5], a modular network protocol stack for P2P networks,
which additionally provides efficient broadcasting mechanisms
primarily based on publish-subscribe models [2].
IPFS also uses IPLD, the InterPlanetary Linked Data Format [4], a framework to describe Merkle-DAGs with arbitrary
node formats and support for multiple types of CIDs [6],
making it very easy to create and sync custom DAG nodes.
These features make IPFS a suitable layer on which to
implement Merkle-CRDTs, as it provides the necessary mechanisms to discover, route and announce content in potentially
very large networks. This is not to say that other transport
mechanisms are not suitable to build Merkle-CRDTs on top.
III. SYSTEM MODEL & ASSUMPTIONS
Our Merkle-CRDT approach is intended to be both simple
and facilitate the use of CRDTs in peer-to-peer distributed
systems with large number of replicas and no message delivery
guarantees (i.e., unreliable transports).
We assume the presence of an asynchronous messaging
layer which provides a communication channel between separate replicas. This channel is managed by two facilities which
every replica exploits: the DAG-Syncer and the Broadcaster
components (defined below).
We assume that messages can be dropped, reordered,
corrupted or duplicated. It is not necessary to know beforehand
the number of replicas participating in the system. Replicas can
join and leave at will, without informing any other replica.
There can be network partitions but they are resolved as soon
as connectivity is re-established and a replica broadcasts a new
event.
Replicas may have durable storage, depending on their
own requirements and data types. Using Merkle-CRDTs, new
replicas and crashed replicas without durable storage will be
able to eventually re-construct the complete state of the system
as long as at least one other replica is in the latest system state.
A. The DAG-Syncer component
A DAG-Syncer is a component that enables a replica to
obtain remote Merkle-DAG nodes from other replicas given
their content identifiers (CIDs) and to make its own nodes
available to other replicas. Since a node contains links to their
direct descendants, given the root node’s CID, the DAG-Syncer
component can be used to fetch the full DAG by following the
links to children in each node. Thus, we can define the DAGSyncer as follows:
Definition 1. (DAG-Syncer). A DAG-Syncer is a component
with two methods:
• Get(CID) : Node
• Put(Node)
We do not specify any more details such as how the
protocol to announce and retrieve nodes looks like. Ideally,
the DAG-Syncer layer should not impose any additional constraints on the system model. Our approach relies on the
properties of the DAG-Syncer and Merkle-DAGs to tolerate
all the network contingencies described above.
B. The Broadcaster component
A Broadcaster is a component to distribute arbitrary data
from one replica to all others (directly or through relays).
Ideally, the payload will reach every replica in the system,
but this is not a requirement for every broadcast message:
Definition 2. (Broadcaster). A Broadcaster is a component
with one method:
• Broadcast(Data)
C. IPFS as a DAG-Syncer and Broadcaster component
The components above can be realised by using IPFS (as
introduced in Section II). IPFS can act as the DAG-Syncer,
while one of the PubSub mechanisms provided by its libp2p
layer can perform the tasks of the Broadcaster component.
Such an implementation should allow extreme scalability
of the replica set in general. The peers in the network do
not need to be fully connected to everyone else and the
system is extremely modular and configurable to fit both small
devices and large storage servers. The choice of settings and
implementations will affect the performance of the system
under different circumstances and network topologies but is
independent from the Merkle-CRDT objects and datatype.
IV. MERKLE-CLOCKS
A. Overview
A Merkle-Clock M is a Merkle-DAG where each node
represents an event. In other words, given an event in the
system, we can find a node in this DAG that represents it
and that allows us to compare it to other events.
The DAG is built by merging other DAGs (those in other
replicas) according to some simple rules. New events are added
as new root nodes (parents to the existing ones). Note that the
Merkle-Clock may have several roots at a given time.
For example, given Mα and Mβ (α and β being the single
root CIDs in those DAGs12):
1) If α = β no action is needed, as they are the same DAG.
2) else if α ∈ Mβ, we keep Mβ as our new Clock, since the
history in Mα is part of it already. We say that Mα < Mβ
in this case.
3) else if β ∈ Mα, we keep Mα for the same reason. We
say that Mβ < Mα in this case.
4) else, we merge both Clocks by keeping both DAGs as they
are and thus having two root nodes, those referenced by
α and β. Note that Mα and Mβ could be fully disjoint
or not, depending on whether they share some of their
deeper nodes. If we wish to record a new event, we can
create a new root γ with two children, α and β.
We can already see that, by determining if one MerkleClock is included in another, we are introducing the notion
of order among Merkle-Clocks. In the same way, we have a
notion of order among the nodes in each clock, since events
that happened earlier will always be descendants of events
that happened later. Additionally, we have introduced a way
12In the example we assume, without loss of generality, that we start with
DAGs containing a single root instead of several.
to merge Merkle-Clocks according to how they compare. The
resulting Merkle-Clock always includes the causality information from both Merkle-Clocks. This eventually means that the
causality information stored in Merkle-Clocks in every replica
will converge to the same Merkle-Clock after merging.
The causal order provided by Merkle-Clocks is embedded
when building Merkle-DAGs with similar rules and usually
overlooked as something very intuitive. It is important, however, to formalize how we define order between Merkle-Clocks
and to prove that the causality information is maintained when
they are synced and merged. This is the subject of the next
section and will be an important property for Merkle-CRDTs.
B. Merkle-Clocks as a convergent, replicated data type
This section formalizes the definition of Merkle-Clocks and
their representation as Merkle-Clock DAGs. We will show that
Merkle-Clock DAGs can be seen as a Growing-Set (G-Set)
CRDT and therefore converge in multiple replicas.
Let S be the set of all system events:
Definition 3. (Merkle-Clock Node). A Merkle-Clock Node nα
is a triple:
(α, eα, Cα)
which represents an event eα ∈ S , with α being the node
CID and Cα being the CID-set of nα’s direct descendants.
Definition 4. (Merkle-Clock DAG). A Merkle-Clock DAG is
a pair:
hN, ≤i
where N is a set of immutable DAG-nodes and a partial order
≤ on N, defined as follows:
nα, nβ ∈ N : nα < nβ ⇔ nα is a descendant of nβ
In other words, nα < nβ if there is a path of linked nodes
which goes from nβ to nα.
In order to maintain this relationship, the Merkle-Clock
DAG must be built with the following Implementation Rule:
IR. Every new event in the system must be represented as
a new root node to the existing Merkle-Clock DAG(s). In
particular, the C set must contain the CIDs of the previous
roots.
Definition 5. (Merkle-Clock). A Merkle-Clock (M) is a
function which given an event eα ∈ S returns a node from
the Merkle-Clock DAG N:
M : S → N
Remark. A Merkle-Clock satisfies the Strong Clock condition
[23]. We see that every node represents a later event than that
of its children:
∀(β, eβ, Cβ) ∈ N : ∀α ∈ Cβ : eα → eβ
Since every event is the root of a (sub)DAG built using
the implementation rule, we can immediately see that earlier
Merkle-Clock values are descendants of the later ones:
M(eα) < M(eβ) ⇔ eα → eβ
We can now define a join-semilattice of Merkle-Clocks
DAGs as a pair:
hJ, ⊆Ji
where J is a set of Merkle-Clocks DAGs and ⊆J a partial order
over that set defined as follows. Given M, N ∈ J:
M ⊂J N ⇔ ∀m ∈ M, ∃n ∈ N | m < n ⇔ M ⊂ N
Note that m < n, means that m is a descendant of n and thus
must belong to the same DAG, then ⊂J simply means that M
is a subset of N.
This allows us to define the Least-Upper-Bound of two
Merkle-Clocks DAGs (⊔J) as the regular union of the sets:
M ⊔J N = M ∪ N
Unsurprisingly, the Merkle-Clock representation corresponds in fact to a Grow-Only-Set (G-Set) in the state-based
CRDT form [33]. The elements of the set are immutable,
cryptographically linked and represent the events in the system.
When the DAGs are disjoint, the resulting DAG will include
the roots from both N and M. That is the equivalent of having
several events without causal relationship. Causality information about DAG-merge events can be optionally included after
the union of the DAGs by creating a new unique root following
the implementation rule.
In the next section we will see how the properties of
Merkle-DAGs allow syncing Merkle-Clocks in a more efficient
manner than regular state-based G-Sets.
C. The Merkle in the Clocks: properties of Merkle-Clocks
We have so far defined a way to encode causality information per replica and ensured that two replicas can merge
their Merkle-Clocks. Now we will see how the properties
of Merkle-DAGs allow the use of a pull rather than a push
approach which, together with content-addressing, enables
efficient clock sync between replicas and overcomes the effect
of network partitions or contingencies. The steps to MerkleClock synchronisation between replicas are given below.
1) Broadcasting the Merkle-Clock requires broadcasting
only the current root CID. The whole Clock is unambiguously identified by the CID of its root and its full
DAG can be walked down from it as needed.
2) The immutable nature of a Merkle-DAG allows every
other replica to perform quick comparisons and pull/fetch
only those nodes that it does not already have.
3) Merkle-DAG nodes are self-verified, through their CID,
and, therefore, immune to corruption and tampering.
Hence, they can be fetched (pulled) from any source
willing to provide them, trusted or not.
4) Identical nodes are de-duplicated by design: there can
only be one unique representation for every event.
In practice, every replica just fetches the delta causal
histories from other replicas without the need to build those
deltas explicitly anywhere in the system. A completely new
replica with no previous history will fetch the full history
automatically13
.
13This is how peers participating in cryptocurrency minning sync their
ledgers.
Merkle-Clocks can replace version clocks and other logical
clocks that are usually part of CRDTs. This comes with some
considerations:
• By using Merkle-Clocks we can decouple the causality
information from the number of replicas, which is a common limitation in version clocks. This makes it possible
to reduce the size of the messages when implementing
CRDTs and, most importantly, solves the problem of
keeping clocks working when replicas randomly join and
leave the system.
• On the downside, the causal information grows with every
event and replicas store potentially large histories even if
the event information is consolidated into smaller objects.
• Keeping the whole causal history enables new replicas to
sync events from scratch out-of-the-box, without having
to explicitly send system snapshots to newcomers. However, that syncing may be slow if the history is very large.
We will explore, along with Merkle-CRDTs, potential
optimizations in this regard.
A significant advantage of Merkle-Clocks over traditional
version clocks is that they can also deal with several types of
network anomalies:
• Dropped messages may prevent other replicas from learning about new roots. But since every Merkle-Clock DAG
is superseeded by future DAGs and every download
fetches all the missing parts of a DAG, network partitions
and replica downtimes do not have an effect on the overall
system and will begin to heal automatically once the
issues are resolved.
• Out of order delivery poses no problem for the same
reasons. The missing DAG will be fetched and processed
in order.
• Duplicated messages are just ignored by replicas as they
are already incorporated into their Merkle-Clocks.
• Corrupt messages come in two forms: a) if the message
broadcasting a new root is corrupted, then it will be a
hash corresponding to a non-existent DAG that cannot
be fetched by the DAG-Syncer and will be eventually
ignored; b) if a DAG node is corrupted on download, the
DAG-Syncer component (or the application) can discard
it if its CID does not match the downloaded content.
As we showed in the previous section, Merkle-Clocks
represent a strict partial order of events. Not all events in
the system can be compared and ordered. For example, when
having multiple roots, the Merkle-Clock cannot say which of
the events happened first.
A total order can be useful [23] and could be obtained, for
example, by considering concurrent events to be equal. Similarly, a strict total order could be built by sorting concurrent
events by the CID of their nodes or by any other arbitrary
user-defined strategy based on additional information attached
to the clock nodes. Any such approach would qualify as datalayer conflict resolution.
V. MERKLE-CRDTS: MERKLE-CLOCKS WITH PAYLOAD
Definition 6. (Merkle-CRDT). A Merkle-CRDT is a MerkleClock whose nodes carry an arbitrary CRDT payload.
Merkle-CRDTs keep all the properties seen before for
Merkle-Clocks. However, for the payloads to converge, they
need to be convergent data types (CRDTs) themselves. The
advantage is that Merkle-Clocks already embed ordering and
causality information which would otherwise need to travel
embedded in the CRDT objects (usually in the form of other
logical clocks). or be provided by a reliable messaging layer.
Thus, the implementation of a Merkle-CRDT node is:
(α,P, C)
with α being the content identifier, P an opaque data object
with CRDT properties and C the set of children identifiers.
A. Per-object causal consistency and gap detection
The directed-link nature of Merkle-CRDTs, which allows
traversing the full causal history of the system in the order
of events, provides all the necessary properties to ensure perobject causal consistency and gap detection by design without
modifying our system model.
This means that Merkle-CRDTs are very well suited to
carry operation-based CRDTs as they can ensure that no
operation is lost or applied in disorder14
.
To facilitate the task of processing CRDT payloads in
Merkle-CRDTs, in the next section we present a general and
simple (non-optimized) anti-entropy algorithm that can be
used to obtain per-object causal consistency for any CRDT
embedded object.
B. General anti-entropy algorithm for Merkle-CRDTs
Definition 7. (General anti-entropy algorithm for MerkleCRDTs).
Let RA and RB be two replicas using Merkle-CRDTs with
Mα and Mθ respectively as their current Merkle-CRDT DAG.
1) RB issues a new payload by creating a new DAG node
(β, P, {θ}) and adding it as the new root to its MerkleCRDT, which becomes Mβ.
2) RB broadcasts β to the rest of replicas in the system.
3) RA receives the broadcast of β and retrieves the full Mβ.
It does this by starting from the root β and walking down
the DAG using the DAG-Syncer component to fetch all
the nodes that are not in Mα, while collecting their CIDs
in a CID-Set D. Given the inherent properties of DAGs,
for any CID already in Mα the whole sub-DAG can be
skipped.
4) If D is empty, no further action is required. RA must have
already processed all the payloads in Mβ. This means that
Mβ ⊆ Mα.
5) If D is not empty, we sort the CIDs in D using the order
provided by the Merkle-Clock.
We can skip the ordering if causal delivery is not a
requirement in our system. The amount of items in D will
14Recall that the Merkle-Clock provides a strict partial order of events. In
this case, two non-concurrent operations applied to an object will be sortable
by the clock.
depend on the amount of concurrency in the system and
how long the two Merkle-CRDTs have been allowed to
diverge, but should be small under normal circumstances.
6) RA processes the payloads associated with the nodes
corresponding to the CIDs in D, from the lowest to the
highest.
7) If α ∈ D, then Mα ⊆ Mβ and Mβ becomes the new
local Merkle-CRDT in RA.
8) else, Mα 6⊂ Mβ and Mβ 6⊂ Mα. RA keeps both nodes
as roots.
C. Operation-based Merkle-CDRTs
Definition 8. Operation-based Merkle-CRDTs are those in
which nodes embed an operation-based CRDT payload.
Operation-based Merkle-CRDTs are the most natural application of Merkle-CRDTs. Operations are easy to define, as
they just need to be commutative, so that the resulting state will
be the same in every replica regardless of the order in which
they have received the operations. However, that also means
that for states to converge, every operation must be received.
A reliable messaging layer [11] is then a prerequisite for
convergence, but in real world networks with a large number of
replicas it is usually not possible to ensure that no message is
lost. This leaves us with complex workarounds, like additional
causality payloads, buffering and retry mechanisms that must
accompany the CRDT implementation, turning what should be
a simple CRDT implementation into something considerably
more complicated.
Merkle-DAGs provide all the properties of a messaging
layer where messages are always delivered in order, verified
and never repeated nor dropped. Thus, Merkle-CRDTs enable
operation-based CRDTs in contexts where they could not be
easily used before.
As we saw, thanks to the Merkle-DAG in which they are
embedded, each replica only needs the missing parts of the
DAG and these can be fetched once the root is known. This
includes new replicas joining the system, which will be able
to fetch and apply all operations. We do not need to keep
knowledge of the full replica set and place the responsibility
of efficient broadcast in the Broadcaster component.
D. State-based Merkle-CRDTs
Definition 9. State-based Merkle-CRDTs are those in which
nodes embed a state-based CRDT payload.
Embedding full states in each Merkle-CRDT node is
counter-intuitive since state-based CRDTs already provide
per-object causal consistency and can cope with unreliable
message layers by design.
Moreover, although the final state would result from the
merge of all the states in the Merkle-CRDT nodes, the DAGSyncer component would still need to store those states,
something prohibitive when working with large state objects.
That said, Merkle-CRDTs remove the need to attach causality
metadata and detach it from the number of replicas, which
might be of interest for state-based CRDTs with very small
states in comparison to the number of replicas.
A more interesting approach is that of δ-CRDTs [10]
which, instead of broadcasting full states, are able to send
smaller sections (deltas). δ-mutations, as these objects are
called, can be merged downstream just like any full state would
be, without the need for changing the semantics of the union
operation. It follows that multiple deltas can be merged to form
what is known as δ-groups and increase the efficiency of the
broadcast payloads. As pointed out in [10], ”a full state can
be seen as a special (extreme) of a delta-group”.
In the vanilla form of δ-CRDTs, however, consistency is
delayed ad-infinitum when a message is lost and the perobject causal consistency property of state-based CRDTs is
lost. These issues can be addressed with an additional antientropy algorithm that groups, sorts, tracks delivery and resends missing deltas, as presented in [10], but in the case
of δ-state-Merkle-CRDTs, the anti-entropy algorithm and any
causal information attached to the original objects would not
be necessary. In essence, this approach brings δ-state MerkleCRDTs closer to their operation-based counterpart.
VI. LIMITS AND OPTIMIZATIONS OF MERKLE-CRDTS
A. Limitations of Merkle-CRDTs
We have so far focused on explaining the different qualities
that Merkle-CRDTs provide when compared to traditional
CRDT approaches, but we must also highlight what intrinsic
and practical limitations they bring.
a) Ever-growing DAG-Size: The most obvious consequence of Merkle-CRDTs is that, while CRDTs normally
merge, apply, consolidate and discard broadcast objects,
Merkle-CRDTs build a permanent Merkle-DAG which must
be stored and is ever-growing. As we have seen, this provides a
number of advantageous properties, but also comes with some
implications:
• The size of the DAG might grow larger than acceptable.
The rate of growth will depend on the number of the
events and the size of the payloads. This is very similar
to how blockhains grow to large sizes in time15. For example, in a non-batched implementation, every insertion
to a CRDT key-value store implementation will result in
a new DAG-node. Thus, for every key we will consume
additional amount of space which, in the case of small
objects, will likely be larger than the original object itself.
This is especially problematic when the actual state might
be much smaller, for example when repeatedly updating
a single key in a database. In some cases, it might be
possible to express the state as a compact of the result of
all the Merkle-CRDT operations, but this brings us to the
next point.
• If replicas store the Merkle-DAG only, knowing that the
full state can be rebuilt from it (and thus saving that
space), starting replicas with very large Merkle-DAGs
might be especially slow since they will need to reprocess
the full DAG, even when available locally. If not, there
15Bitcoin chain uses more than 220GB and Ethereum (Parity) more than
165GB as of this writing.
will be redundant information stored in both the resulting
state and in the Merkle-DAG.
• Merkle-CRDT syncs from scratch are possible and natural
to the system when a new replica joins. However, MerkleDAGs are not only ever-growing but also tend to be deep
and thin16. A new replica will learn the root CID from a
broadcast operation and will need to resolve the full DAG
from it. Because of the thinness, it will not be possible
to fetch several branches in parallel. Cold-syncs may take
significantly longer than it would take to ship a snapshot,
thus rendering this embedded property of Merkle-DAGs
of little value.
Very large DAGs and slow syncs are not a problem in some
scenarios and can be seen as an acceptable trade-off, but do
highlight the need of exploring “garbage collection” and DAG
compaction mechanisms.
b) Merkle-Clock sorting: Merging two Merkle-Clocks
requires comparing them to see if they are included in one
another and finding differences. This may be a costly operation
if DAGs have diverged significantly (or long ago).
c) DAG-Syncer latency: Replicas rely on a DAGSyncer component to fetch and provide nodes from and to
the messaging layer. As mentioned earlier, Merkle-CRDTs are
agnostic to the mechanism used to synchronise messages (e.g.,
DHT or PubSub), but unless chosen carefully, this mechanism
might introduce sync delay. Depending on application requirements, this delay might or might not be acceptable.
The practical impact of these limitations depends on the
requirements of the application. In particular, when thinking
about adopting Merkle-CRDTs, users should consider whether
Merkle-CRDTs are the best approach in terms of: i) Node
count vs. state-size, ii) Time to cold-sync, iii) Update propagation latency, iv) Expected total number of replicas, v) Expected
replica-set modifications (joins and departures), vi) Expected
volume of concurrent events.
B. Optimizing Merkle-CRDTs
a) Delayed DAG nodes: In scenarios where replicas
issue frequent updates, we can group multiple payloads before
issuing a single node containing all of them. It is clear that
this approach will bring some benefits, which however, comes
with trade-offs: updates are not immediately sent out and will,
therefore, take longer to propagate.
b) Quick Merkle-DAG inclusion check: M erging the
local replica DAGs with a remote one requires checking if
one DAG includes the other. It is possible but inefficient to
do so by walking down the first DAG looking for a node
CID that matches the root of the second. Storing the CIDs
of the local DAG in a key-value store that can quickly check
whether a CID is part of the local DAG or not makes things
significantly easier17. When walking the remote DAG to check
for inclusion of the local DAG, the CIDs of the children of any
16The Merkle-DAGs will be thin in the absence of many concurrent events,
or have a high branching factor otherwise. In both cases, branches are
consolidated every time a new event is issued from a replica, thus creating
thin waists in the DAG.
17Fast key-value stores, such as in-memory ones, will normally pay a high
memory footprint penalty, while disk-backed ones will be slower.
of its nodes can be checked to see if they are part of the local
DAG in which case their branches can be conveniently pruned.
This implies, however, that the implementation must be aware
and have access to the local storage system for nodes. The
DAG-Syncer, as currently defined, cannot differentiate between
nodes available locally or remotely. Bloom filters, caches and
some data structures can also improve efficiency, but they are
usually part of the chosen storage backend.
A similar effect can be achieved by embedding version vectors in the payloads, as long as the application can tolerate the
constraints they impose. Comparing version vectors between
payloads is an inclusion check without the need to perform a
DAG-walking.
c) Broadcast payload adjustments:: Our standard approach reduces the size of the broadcasts by including only
the CID of the new roots. Publishing mechanisms are complex
enough and always benefit from smaller payloads.
However in some systems it may be beneficial to send new
Merkle-DAG nodes directly as part of the broadcast payloads.
Replicas that are offline or dropped messages will recover
when they receive a future update and complete their DAGs,
so this has no effects in that regard. Broadcasting the payloads
(assuming they are small enough) will likely reduce the latency
of the propagation of changes in the system.
d) Reducing the Merkle-DAG node size: We can attempt to reduce the size of the payloads as much as possible by
compressing and removing redundant information not required
by the CRDT itself. For example, instead of signing the CRDT
payloads to ensure that they come from a trusted replica, we
can sign the broadcast messages, thus leaving signatures out
of the Merkle-DAG.
Another option is to make the payload (or parts of it)
CIDs to reference the actual contents. If the payloads are big,
this will greatly reduce the size of the Merkle-DAG and may
increase the efficiency of the DAG fetching. This is especially
relevant when some of the payloads are identical and can be
de-duplicated, or when it is possible to access part of the data
opportunistically.
e) Additional pointers in nodes:: One of the ways to
work around the thin-DAG problem is to regularly introduce
references to deeper parts of the DAG when issuing new nodes.
This method is basically adding extra children to nodes. It
allows more parallelism when fetching missing parts of the
DAG by being able to jump to other sections of it, resulting in
much faster traversals. The actual number of extra links and
their destination will depend on the needs of the application.
The above recommendations should be considered in any
Merkle-CRDT implementation as they can provide significant
advantages over the un-optimized version described previously.
Which optimizations fit to which implementation is largely
application-specific. We leave the topics of DAG compaction
and garbage collection for future work, although we intuitively
note that discarding parts of the Merkle-DAG should not be
attempted before making sure that every replica is aware of
them. This, in turn, requires either having knowledge of the
current replica-set or using an external source of truth (i.e. a
blockchain), a system constraint that we did not have before.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this paper we approached Merkle-DAGs as causalityencoding structures with self-verification and efficient syncing
properties. This led us to introduce the concept of MerkleClock, demonstrating that they can be described as a statebased CRDT which, announced with a Broadcaster component
and fetched with a DAG-Syncer facility, converges in all
replicas.
We then presented Merkle-CRDTs as Merkle-Clocks with
CRDT payloads. We showed how Merkle-CRDTs work with
almost no messaging layer guarantees and no constraints on the
replica-set, which can be dynamic and unknown, while providing per-object causal consistency. Merkle-CRDTs are widely
used in the IPFS ecosystem for database logging operations18
,
in OrbitDB19, a distributed, P2P database, its serverleess
application, Orbit20, as well as distributed, collaborative
editing21 and mobile photo-sharing applications22
.
Merkle-CRDTs are a marriage between traditional
blockchains, which need consensus to converge, and CRDTs,
which converge by design, and thus inherit positive and
negative aspects from both worlds. With this work, we hope to
have set a good foundation for further research on the topic.
APPENDIX
Merkle-CRDTs are very intuitive, even if they were not
formalized before, and rely on well-known and widely used
properties of Merkle-DAGs. Several projects in the IPFS
ecosystem already use them23, all embedding operation-based
CRDTs in Merkle-DAGs:
• ipfs-log24 is, to our knowledge, the first existing
instance of a Merkle-CRDT as described here. It implements an operation-based, append-only log CRDT
(similar to a grow-only set).
• ipfs-hyperlog25 is utility to build and replicate
Merkle DAGs.
• Orbit DB26 is a distributed, peer-to-peer database. It
uses ipfs-log and other CRDTs for different data models. It is used to build Orbit27, a distributed, serverless
chat application.
• Tevere28 is an operation-based Merkle-CRDT key-value
store.
• peer-crdt29 and peer-crdt-ipfs30 provide a generalistic operation Merkle-CRDT implementations of several CRDTs: counters, sets, arrays, registers and text (as
well as composable CRDTs).
18https://github.com/orbitdb/ipfs-log
19https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db
20https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit
21https://github.com/peer-base/peer-pad
22textile.photos
23The dynamic data and capabilities working group has started many discussions on the topic: https://github.com/ipfs/dynamic-data-and-capabilities.
24https://github.com/orbitdb/ipfs-log
25https://github.com/noffle/ipfs-hyperlog
26https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db
27https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit
28https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/tevere
29https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/peer-crdt
30https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/peer-crdt-ipfs
• versidag31 is a proposed linked log with conflict resolution to store version information, similar to ipfs-log.
• PeerPad32 is a real-time collaborative text editor based
on peer-crdt and δ-CRDTs.
• Textile.photos33 is a mobile, decentralized digital
wallet for photos. Textile Threads (v1) [20] allow a group
of users to share photos without a central database and
are based on Merkle-CRDTs.
• go-ds-crdt34 is a key-value distributed datastore implementation in Go using δ-state Merkle-CRDTs. It is
used by IPFS Cluster35
.
REFERENCES
[1] DAG Coin. https://dagcoin.org.
[2] GossipSub: A Secure PubSub Protocol for
Unstructured, Decentralised P2P Overlays.
https://research.protocol.ai/posts/201912-resnetlab-launch/PL-TechRep-gossipsub-v0[3] IOTA. https://iota.org.
[4] IPLD: The InterPlanetary Linked Data Format. https://ipld.io/.
[5] libp2p: A Modular Network Protocol Stack for P2P Networks.
https://libp2p.io/.
[6] Multiformats: Self-describing values for Future-proofing.
https://multiformats.io/.
[7] Alexander Afanasyev, Zhenkai Zhu, Yingdi Yu, Lijing Wang, and Lixia
Zhang. The story of chronoshare, or how ndn brought distributed secure
file sharing back. In IEEE MASS, pages 525–530, 10 2015.
[8] Jos´e Bacelar Almeida, Paulo S´ergio Almeida, and Carlos Baquero
Moreno. Bounded version vectors. In International Conference on
Distributed Computing - ICDCS, volume 3274, pages 102–116, Tokyo,
Japan, March 2004. Springer, Springer.
[9] Paulo S´ergio Almeida, Carlos Baquero, and Victor Fonte. Interval
tree clocks. In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on
Principles of Distributed Systems, OPODIS ’08, pages 259–274, Berlin,
Heidelberg, 2008. Springer-Verlag.
[10] Paulo S´ergio Almeida, Ali Shoker, and Carlos Baquero. Efficient statebased CRDTs by delta-mutation. CoRR, abs/1410.2803, 2014.
[11] Carlos Baquero, Paulo S´ergio Almeida, and Ali Shoker. Making
operation-based CRDTs operation-based. In Proceedings of the First
Workshop on Principles and Practice of Eventual Consistency, PaPEC
’14, pages 7:1–7:2, New York, NY, USA, 2014. ACM.
[12] Carlos Baquero and Nuno Preguic¸a. Why logical clocks are easy. ACM
Queue, 14, April 2016.
[13] Petr Baudis. Current concepts in version control systems. CoRR,
abs/1405.3496, 2014.
[14] Juan Benet. IPFS - content addressed, versioned, P2P file system (draft
3), 2014.
[15] Russell Brown, Sean Cribbs, Christopher Meiklejohn, and Sam Elliott.
Riak dt map: A composable, convergent replicated dictionary. In
Proceedings of the First Workshop on Principles and Practice of
Eventual Consistency, PaPEC ’14, pages 1:1–1:1, New York, NY, USA,
2014. ACM.
[16] Russell Brown, Zeeshan Lakhani, and Paul Place. Big(ger) sets:
decomposed delta CRDT sets in riak. CoRR, abs/1605.06424, 2016.
[17] Scott Chacon and Ben Straub. Pro Git. Apress, Berkely, CA, USA, 4th
edition, 2018.
[18] Anton Churyumov. Byteball: A decentralized system for storage and
transfer of value, 2016.
[19] Giuseppe DeCandia, Deniz Hastorun, Madan Jampani, Gunavardhan
Kakulapati, Avinash Lakshman, Alex Pilchin, Swaminathan Sivasubramanian, Peter Vosshall, and Werner Vogels. Dynamo: Amazon’s highly
available key-value store, 2007.
31https://github.com/ipfs/dynamic-data-and-capabilities/issues/50
32https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/peer-pad
33https://www.textile.photos/
34https://github.com/ipfs/go-ds-crdt
35https://cluster.ipfs.io
[20] Carson Farmer and Sander Pick. Textile Threads whitepaper. . . just
kidding. . . a deeper look at the tech behind textile’s Threads protocol,
October 2018.
[21] C. J. Fidge. Timestamps in message-passing systems that preserve the
partial ordering. Proceedings of the 11th Australian Computer Science
Conference, 10(1):56–66, 1988.
[22] Brent ByungHoon Kang, Robert Wilensky, and John Kubiatowicz. The
hash history approach for reconciling mutual inconsistency. In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Distributed Computing
Systems, ICDCS ’03, pages 670–, Washington, DC, USA, 2003. IEEE
Computer Society.
[23] Leslie Lamport. Time, clocks, and the ordering of events in a distributed
system. Commun. ACM, 21(7):558–565, July 1978.
[24] Tobias Landes. Tree clocks: An efficient and entirely dynamic logical time system. In Proceedings of the 25th IASTED International
Multi-Conference: Parallel and Distributed Computing and Networks,
PDCN’07, pages 375–380, Anaheim, CA, USA, 2007. ACTA Press.
[25] Ralph C. Merkle. A digital signature based on a conventional encryption
function. In Carl Pomerance, editor, Advances in Cryptology —
CRYPTO ’87, pages 369–378, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1988. Springer Berlin
Heidelberg.
[26] Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,
2009.
[27] Geroge Neville-Neil. Time is an illusion. ACM Queue, 13(9), 2016.
[28] D. S. Parker, G. J. Popek, G. Rudisin, A. Stoughton, B. J. Walker,
E. Walton, J. M. Chow, D. Edwards, S. Kiser, and C. Kline. Detection
of mutual inconsistency in distributed systems. IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng.,
9(3):240–247, May 1983.
[29] Nuno M. Preguic¸a, Carlos Baquero, Paulo S´ergio Almeida, Victor
Fonte, and Ricardo Gonc¸alves. Dotted version vectors: Logical clocks
for optimistic replication. CoRR, abs/1011.5808, 2010.
[30] Nuno M. Preguic¸a, Carlos Baquero, and Marc Shapiro. Conflict-free
replicated data types (CRDTs). CoRR, abs/1805.06358, 2018.
[31] Wentao Shang, Alexander Afanasyev, and Lixia Zhang. Vectorsync:
Distributed dataset synchronization over named data networking. In
Proceedings of the 4th ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking, ICN ’17, page 192–193, New York, NY, USA, 2017. Association for Computing Machinery.
[32] Wentao Shang, Yingdi Yu, Lijing Wang, Alexander Afanasyev, and
Lixia Zhang. A survey of distributed dataset synchronization in Named
Data Networking. Technical Report NDN-0053, NDN, May 2017.
[33] Marc Shapiro, Nuno Preguic¸a, Carlos Baquero, and Marek Zawirski. A
comprehensive study of Convergent and Commutative Replicated Data
Types. Research Report RR-7506, Inria – Centre Paris-Rocquencourt ;
INRIA, January 2011.
[34] Lixia Zhang, Alexander Afanasyev, Jeffrey Burke, Van Jacobson,
kc claffy, Patric Crowley, Christos Papadopoulos, Lan Wang, and
Beichuan Zhang. Named Data Networking. ACM Computer Communication Reviews, June 2014.
[35] Zhenkai Zhu and Alexander Afanasyev. Let’s chronosync: Decentralized dataset state synchronization in named data networking. In
Proceedings - International Conference on Network Protocols, ICNP,
pages 1–10, 10 2013.